So guys, now let us discuss the implementation of bitmaps, so in order to implement the bitmap, you
need to create two files the bitmap doxy and Bitmap Crawdads.
So we will going to implement bitmap as a library, a very small library.
So we have already discussed how to represent the bitmap using C structure.
Now we need to write a couple of APIs which will perform operations on a bitmap.
So these are the collection of APIs which we need to implement.
The prototype and declaration of these APIs will go in bitmap, not edge, whereas the implementation
will go in bitmap Dorsey.
All right.
And if you notice, what does each of these API do, then it is quite obvious from their name, the
first API is simply create a bitmap added in which the number of bits was the user can manipulate is
and that is an underscore bits.
All right.
So the input to the bitmap create EPA is the number of beds to be created.
Then the second API must print the individual bits of the bitmap.
So, for example, this is the snapshot of the bitmap, so bitmap print API must print the output one
zero zero one zero zero one zero on the screen.
That is, this API print the contents of the bitmap.
Then Bitmaps said, what is the API, which is used to set a particular bed in the bitmap area?
So for example, if you invoke this API bitmap set bit bossing the pointer to the bitmap and let us
suppose that as an index value, you pass for.
All right.
So in this example, the BRIT at full time location or world index must be set to one, and the same
goes with bitmap unsaid width.
Fifth, FBI bitmap is set returns true or false, depending whether this particular bit at the following
index is one or not.
All right.
So Wall is a derivative, which is defined in SDD bold attacks, so you need to include this high profile
then bitmap clear is an API which will reset all the bits of the bitmap edit and bitmaps at all is an
API which will set all the bits of the bitmap edit.
All right.
Now note that in these two APIs, you need to write an efficient code.
He had an efficient code means how many memory operations are function on program issues in order to
perform bitmap clear or bitmaps at all.
So, for example, if I issue bitmap clear operation on this bitmap adi, then it is suffice to issue
one operation on this bitmap area in order to clear all the bits and how you will going to do that.
So what I was going to do is that that the size of this bitmap is in bits.
So it is suffice for me if I typecast this bitmap area into unsigned integer eight type pointer.
And after typecasting, I will simply write star story equal to zero.
So just buy one memory operation all the bits of this bitmap Eddie will be initialized to zero.
All right.
So if the size of this map, Eddie was 16 bits, then instead of you in 80, I would have taken you
and 16t.
All right, and this line stays same had the size of this bitmap, Eddie was something like 32 bit than
I would have type casted this bitmap Eddie into you and 32 Typekit pointer.
And just by issuing one memory operations, I would have initialized all the bits of this map added
to zero.
Similarly, if the size of the bitmap edit was 64 bits, then I would have used here.
You and 64 did a bike.
And now it is up to you.
The size of this map added, let's say some arbitrary value, one hundred and fifty six.
So now you have to issue minimum number of operations in order to initialize all the bits of the bitmap
any.
Two zero.
So now you have to apply a little bit of automatic.
That is typecasting the first 64 bits of the bitmap Eddie to the U.N. 64 type variable and initialize
and get to zero.
Then again, typecasting the next set of 64 bits of the bitmap added to you in 64 time variable again
and again, initializing the variable to zero.
So this would cover 120 Edwards in two memory operations, and the remaining bits which are left is
28, which this you can do by typecasting it into you and 60 you and 16 type of variable, which which
will need one memory operations to initialize 16 bits to zero and the remaining 12 which are left these
remaining 12, which would be covered by one.
You end it the type of variable, then the remaining four bits are left.
These for which can be initialized to zero by invoking an API bitmap unsaid with four times so total
number of operations required to initialize the bitmap array of 656 bits.
Would we do that?
Is this two plus this one plus this?
You indicate Operation Plus four?
So two three four four eight operations and so you need to write an efficient code for these two areas
that is bitmap clear and bitmap set all.
Now, let me discuss for the sake of an example, how to implement the API, but maps that bit.
All right.
So if I invoke this API with index location, let's say 22 than in this bitmap 80 at index number 22,
the width should be set to one.
So this should be the end result or oppression, which this API is supposed to do.
So here is the pseudocode all you can see an exact program, which would exactly do that.
And I leave it to you to read the code of this API and understand all you need to do is to apply a very
simple high school level, ultimately to compute the exact location of the bit in the bitmap area,
which is to be set to one.
So I hope it is very much clear what needs to be done.
Please do test all these APIs that you write, and you can simply test the implementation of each of
these APIs using our API bitmap print.
You can perform some random operations on your bitmap adi and use this API to print the contents of
the bitmap Eddie.